get everyone so we were trying to solve
the problem of basically large group
secure and private chat in a
decentralized setting and the question
we were mainly trying to answer is
there's a spec an IETF spec in progress
at the moment for exactly what for the
almost that problem but they're kind of
unclear whether they're centralized or
not and so the question is can we use
this in a setting like ipfs the TLDR is
we think we can but we're not a hundred
percent sure yet
so there are various issues so you want
it's essentially a generalization of the
signal protocol but to scale to things
like a group of 50,000 where if you just
because you the simplest thing is you
just do a pairwise signal protocol
between all the members but that doesn't
over that it doesn't scale because it's
N squared but so this is the the better
solution you have to handle partitions
and then if they then rejoin and then
merge you have to have some kind of
compromise for for post for post
compromised so forwards forward security
in that case so you have to keep old
keys around for a little bit longer
until you merge essentially and the
other important question is about
message ordering we think we can solve
that with a with essentially a cube per
member in the group whether it's an
orbit DB log or a pair gloss file or a
textile thread something like that the
main thing you need fundamentally is
obviously causal ordering but you don't
need a total order and yes so the one
the main thing we were unsure about was
some kind of scheme to evict inactive
members specifically for forward secrecy
because if someone enters the group
never sends anything and kind of stays
around in some old states that would
basically stop everyone from throwing
away old keys so you lose the 40
you see in that case but that's not for
it that's post compromised secrecy
[Applause]